.TH WGen 8  "" "Written by Rafael Senties Martinelli 04-06-2015, 02-01-2018"
.SH NAME
 pgen - A tool for generating word lists.
.PP
.SH DESCRIPTION
 pgen - A tool for generating word lists. It loads a list of words or strings, and then the incremental mode starts generating the combinations. The objective of this program is to allow the user configure "smart" combinations.
.LP
While the program is generating the words, it will display some statistics such as the number of possible combinations, the average of combinations/second, and the estimated amount of time.
.TP
.PP
.TP
.B Usage:
To launch the program, it is only needed to enter "pgen" over a terminal.
.TP
.B Using the TUI:
On vertical menus use the Up/Down arrows and over horizontal menus Left/Right arrows to move. The enter key is used to validate, and the backspace key to return.
.TP
.B Lists:
The lists of words or strings that the program requests must be a file where each string or word is in a different line. (Any space in the beginning or the end of each line will be removed). When the program asks for a list, if the list is in the working directory it is possible to only input the name. An example of a list is in the folder make-a-test, placed at
.I /usr/share/doc/pgen
.PP
.SH IMPORTANT REMARKS
.TP
+ When using the program if any error happens it will be logged under a file called "7zR-DEBUG", created over the current directory.
.TP
+ When entering paths, hashes or something requested by the TUI, it must be in a single line.
.TP
+ The new socket communication system does not allow (for the moment) to send the password back once it has been found. The password will be written in a file called "7zR-PASSWORD" over your current directory (it is safe to do not delete this file when performing multiple attempts).
.TP
+ The program will always read and write in utf-8 encoding. Do not use any other encoding. When launching the program, if your system is not in utf-8 the program will display a warning message.
.TP
+ When writing lists/passwords tests the files will appear as "empty" until the loop finish or be killed.
.TP
+ It is possible that when cracking files if the password contains a double quote " string it may fail, and I ignore if it is possible to escape.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B Max number of process:
This will configure the maximum number of process used by the program. There is no limit set by the program. To check the limit of your computer  i  recommend  to increase the number of process until reaching 90-95% of the CPU's capacity. Once you've reached 100% normally there is no interest to increase the number of process because it won't make you win any more time.
.TP
.B Start length:
This option sets the start length of the combinations produced by the program. The minimum is 2, and if you wish to test single words you should use the "Test 1string" option.
.TP
.B Final length:
This options sets the final length of the combinations produced by the program. There is no limit set, just take in mind that if the number of combinations is too big you may make the program crash or make your computer run out of memory.
.TP
.TP
.B Add spaces:
This option will add spaces betwen combinations. A combination will look like "firstword secondword thirdword.."
.TP
.B Duplicated strings:
If Duplicated strings is set to "False", it won't test any combination with more than 1 duplicated string from the list of words. This option overwrites the Next to Next Strings option.
.TP
.B Remove tests:
This option you will ask you for a remove-tests list. This list must contain the exact strings that you don't want to test. When a string that you don't want to test matches with a combination, the string is removed from the virtual list in order to gain speed.
.RS
Since the program do not has a "save my advancement" option, the best that you can do is to use the option "write tests" and merge its files to a single file and use this option. This is not the most efficient, but it works fast enough.
.RE
.TP
.B Remove combinations:
.RS
When this option is active, you will be asked for a remove_combinations file. This file must contain all the illogical strings that you consider unnecessary to test.
.TP
This option makes  to  win an INCREDIBLE amount of time. When you are dealing with a big number of possible combinations, this  option  is  crucial  to succeed. For  some  languages  this  option is easy to implement.  In Spanish  for example, there are no words containing “zw” , “xy” , “ñb”, “kq”
.TP
For example, If the password list contains "c,a,r,o,z,w"  (separated by lines not by comas) and the  remove combinations list contains "zw, wz" (separated by lines not by comas), The incremental mode will automatically reject all the combinations containing “zw”, “wz”.
.RE
.TP
.B Next to next strings:
You can configure if you want duplicated strings next to next or not. This makes faster the password search. Most of passwords containing words do not have repeated letters. If your language has some words with repeated letters you can add the string to the password list.
.RS
For example, if the password list contains "c,a,r,o"  (separated by lines not by comas) And NtNS is set to "False", words like "carro" won't be tested.
.TP
It is possible to set NtNS to "False", and add 'rr' to the password list. For example if the password list contains "c,a,r,rr,o"  (separated by lines not by comas) and NtNS is set to'No", words like "carro" will be tested.( But will also make combinations with 'rrr' )
.TP
You must be careful with this mode, because some combinations of words could be refused. For example, 'todayyes' would be refused if 'yy' is not in the password list.
.TP
If NtNS is set to "yes", all the strings will be tested, but you will loose time checking strings like 'aaabbcc'.
.RE
.TP
.B Write tests:
This option will write the combinations that are being tested in a folder over the current directory. If the folder already exists in the current directory it will be removed without asking!
.TP
.B Write Lists:
This option will write the lists used by the program. It can be useful if you cleaned a list and you want to compare or save the changes. The lists will not be overwritten but instead generated with the name "<oldname>-new".
.TP
.B Clean lists:
.RS
Normal: It removes duplicated words or strings.
.TP
Advanced: Normal mode + it removes strings containing other strings.
.TP
None: It adds all the words  or  strings  without checking for duplicates. It is only recommended to use this mode if a Normal or an Advanced mode have already been used.
.RE
.TP
.B Sort lists:
This option is useful when there are Test or Combinations to remove because it synchronizes the lists. The time that takes to python to search for a string is reduced. This option also removes all the un-useful tests. It is recommended to make a backup of the lists before using this option.
.TP
.LP
.PP
.SH TUI Messages
.TP
.B + Combining X strings, Stage X of X
.RS
"Combining X strings" displays the current word length that is being generated.
.TP
"Stage X of X." displays the current stage of the word length. 
.TP
Both messages are always sent by the process that it is at the top of the scanning.
.TP
For example: The word list contains a,b,c,d; Start length=2; Final length=4; number of process=2; and the message displayed is "+ Combining 3 strings, Stage 2 of 4". We can deduce then that:
.RS
 + There is one process scanning combinations of three strings starting with the letter b.
 + Since there are two process, the other process is checking a three words combinations starting with the letter a.
 + All the combinations of two words have been tested.
.RE
.RE
.TP	
.B + Average of X/s
The average of words per second that are being iterated by the program. When options like removing duplicated strings are activated, the words are generated but not tested. The python generation it is really fast, and you can test it by running in mode "Empty Run".
.TP
.B + Estimating XXXXX to finish.
This statistic should be recalculated almost every second. If the seconds number of the statistic decrease like a normal seconds counter the estimated time should be a pretty good approach.
.TP
The end of this line will contain dots (. , .., ...) in order to display that the TUI stats are not frozen.
.PP
